{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf130
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid201\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid3}
{\list\listtemplateid4\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid301\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid4}
{\list\listtemplateid5\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid401\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid5}
{\list\listtemplateid6\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid501\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid6}
{\list\listtemplateid7\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid601\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{hyphen\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid602\'01\uc0\u8259 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listname ;}\listid7}
{\list\listtemplateid8\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid701\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid8}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}{\listoverride\listid4\listoverridecount0\ls4}{\listoverride\listid5\listoverridecount0\ls5}{\listoverride\listid6\listoverridecount0\ls6}{\listoverride\listid7\listoverridecount0\ls7}{\listoverride\listid8\listoverridecount0\ls8}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww13760\viewh8540\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Finish chapter 5, 8, 9, 10, 13.1-s2\
Finish SQL Zoo\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 \ul \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Ch 3
\b0 \ulnone \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
3.1\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	\'95	}
\b What is a database connection and how long is it held? 
\b0 The connection that allows you to access the database; it is held until the application releases the connection (when you type \'91quit\'92) or the serve closes the connection (when the server is shut down)\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\b \cf0 {\listtext	\'95	}What is the query optimizer?
\b0  It\'92s job is to determine the most efficient way to execute your query (it will look at such things as the order in which to join the tables named in your from clause and what indexes are available, and then picks an execution plan which the server uses to execute your query)\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
3.2- 
\b Be able to describe the purpose of the SELECT, FROM, WHERE, GROUP BY, HAVING and ORDER BY clauses. Don't worry about memorizing the definitions in this section now, but you should have internalized them by the time you've finished this chapter.
\b0 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 	\'95	SELECT: 
\b0 Determines which columns to include in the query\'92s result set
\b \
	\'95	FROM: 
\b0 Identifies the tables from which to draw data and how the tables should be joined
\b \
	\'95	WHERE:
\b0  Filters out unwanted data
\b \
	\'95	GROUP BY:
\b0  Used to group rows together by common column values
\b \
	\'95	HAVING:
\b0  Filters out unwanted groups (like WHERE but for groups)
\b \
	\'95	ORDER BY:
\b0  Sorts the row of the final result set by one or more columns\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
3.3\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0
\b \cf0 {\listtext	\'95	}How do you add column aliases to a SELECT clause?
\b0  just put them after the query column (optional AS in between)\
\ls2\ilvl0
\b {\listtext	\'95	}How do you remove duplicates from a SELECT clause?
\b0  Use SELECT DISTINCT\
\ls2\ilvl0
\b {\listtext	\'95	}Why does this make the query slower?
\b0  Because you have to sort the data (O(nlgn) time, not O(n))\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
3.4\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl0
\b \cf0 {\listtext	\'95	}What is a subquery?
\b0  A query contained within another query; they are surrounded by parentheses and can be found in various parts of a SELECT statement within the FROM clause. However, a subquery serves the role of generating a temporary table that is visible from all other query clauses and can interact with other tables named in the FROM clause.
\b \
{\listtext	\'95	}What does a subquery generate (or return)?
\b0  A temporary table
\b \
{\listtext	\'95	}What is a view? 
\b0 A query that is stored in the data dictionary- it looks and acts like a table, but there is no data associated with a view (also thought of as a 
\i virtual table
\i0 ). When you issue a query against a view, your query is merged with the view definition to create a final query to be executed.
\b \
{\listtext	\'95	}How do you create an alias for a table? 
\b0 Same way you create a column alias, but after a JOIN or FROM (also with an optional AS in between)\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
3.5- 
\b Know how to write simple WHERE clauses with multiple filter conditions. Know how to group conditions with parentheses. \
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls4\ilvl0
\b0 \cf0 {\listtext	\'95	}Comparisons: = (not ==), >, <, >=, <=, !=, <>, LIKE, IN, BETWEEN\
{\listtext	\'95	}Operators: AND, OR, NOT\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
3.7\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls5\ilvl0
\b \cf0 {\listtext	\'95	}How do you order on multiple columns (i.e., first on one column, then on another)?
\b0  ORDER BY <primary_column>, <secondary_column>, <tertiary_column>\'85  (you can also reference columns by the order in which you entered them in the SELECT statement)\
\ls5\ilvl0
\b {\listtext	\'95	}What is the default sorting order, and how do you flip it?
\b0  The default is \ul ascending\ulnone , but you can specify whether you would like ascending or descending order using ASC and DESC keywords after the column by which you are trying to sort.\
\ls5\ilvl0
\b {\listtext	\'95	}How do you sort via an expression? 
\b0 enter the expression after ORDER BY\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\qc\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 \ul Ch 4
\b0 \ulnone \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls6\ilvl0\cf0 4.1\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls6\ilvl0
\b \cf0 {\listtext	\'95	}Be familiar with the NOT operator- 
\b0 It works the same way as \'93!\'94 in other programming languages.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls7\ilvl0\cf0 4.3\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls7\ilvl0
\b \cf0 {\listtext	\'95	}Be familiar with the following types of conditions: \
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li1440\fi-1440\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls7\ilvl1\cf0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}Equality-
\b0  use =
\b \
{\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}Inequality- 
\b0 use != or <>
\b \
{\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}Range-
\b0  use BETWEEN <lower_bound_value> AND <upper_bound_value> (this can work for dates, numbers and, for certain cases, strings)
\b \
{\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}Membership (IN and NOT IN)-
\b0  To avoid using numerous OR statements to check whether or not a column\'92s value lies in a specific list, use \'93<column> IN (<val_1>, <val_2>, <val_3> \'85 );\'94. To ensure a column does not lie in a list, use NOT IN instead of IN.
\b \
{\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}Membership (using subqueries)- 
\b0 You can use a subquery (preferably with a single column argument for SELECT) to generate a list of values for your column to match
\b \
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls7\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	\'95	}Know how to use regex in a search expression-
\b0  To match to a regex use \'93<column> REGEXP \'91<regex expression>\'92 \'93\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls8\ilvl0\cf0 4.4\
{\listtext	\'95	}
\b How do you test if an expression is NULL?
\b0  Expressions can be NULL, but may never actually equal NULL (consequently, NULL\'92s can never equal each other). So, to test if an expression is NULL, use \'93<column> IS NULL\'94.\
{\listtext	\'95	}
\b How do you test if a value has been assigned to a column?
\b0  Use \'93<column> IS NOT NULL\'94. (If you\'92re ensuring that a column does not meet a condition, make sure that you specify that its okay for that column to be NULL, as it\'92s absence of value will automatically prevent it from being evaluated on the conditional.)\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\qc\partightenfactor0
\ls8\ilvl0
\b \cf0 \ul \
Ch 5
\b0 \ulnone \
\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls8\ilvl0\cf0 5.1\
{\listtext	\'95	}
\b What is a cross join and how is it generated?
\b0  Its the cartesian product of the two tables, so every permutation of joining the two tables will be returned. It\'92s generated by using \'93FROM <table> JOIN <other_table>\'94 without any modifiers.\
\ls8\ilvl0
\b {\listtext	\'95	}What is an inner join and how is it generated?
\b0  Its the joining of two tables where the values align on a specified condition. It\'92s generated by using \'93FROM <table> INNER JOIN <other_table> ON <table.column_val> = <other_table.column_val>\'94\
\ls8\ilvl0
\b {\listtext	\'95	}What is the default type of join?
\b0  Inner join is the default type of join.\
\
5.2\
{\listtext	\'95	}
\b Know how to inner join 3 (or more) tables-
\b0  Know how to inner join to the same table multiple times.\
\
5.3\
{\listtext	\'95	}What is a self-referencing foreign key?\
{\listtext	\'95	}How do you inner join a table to itself?\
\
5.4\
{\listtext	\'95	}How do you inner join a table to another on a range of values instead of on an equality condition? How do you do that for a self-join?\
\
5.5\
{\listtext	\'95	}As you know, join conditions belong in the ON clause and filter conditions belong in the WHERE clause. What happens if you put a join condition in the WHERE clause and/or a filter condition in an ON clause?\
}